Move Orbit docs (#8403)
fleetdm/fleet: docs/Using-Fleet/Orbit.md

# Orbit

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Try Orbit](#try-orbit)
    + [With [`fleetctl preview` already running](https://github.com/fleetdm/fleet#try-fleet):](#with---fleetctl-preview--already-running--https---githubcom-fleetdm-fleet-try-fleet--)
- [Capabilities](#capabilities)
- [Usage](#usage)
  * [Permissions](#permissions)
    + [macOS/Linux](#macos-linux)
    + [Windows](#windows)
  * [Osquery shell](#osquery-shell)
  * [Connect to a Fleet server](#connect-to-a-fleet-server)
  * [Osquery flags](#osquery-flags)
- [Packaging](#packaging)
  * [Dependencies](#dependencies)
  * [Packaging support](#packaging-support)
  * [Building packages](#building-packages)
    + [Update channels](#update-channels)

>     + [macOS signing & Notarization](#macos-signing---notarization)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    + [macOS signing & notarization](#macos-signing---notarization)
```

>     + [Orbit Osquery Result and Status Logs](#orbit-osquery-result-and-status-logs)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    + [Orbit osquery result and status logs](#orbit-osquery-result-and-status-logs)
```

>     + [Orbit Development](#orbit-development)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    + [Orbit development](#orbit-development)
```

>       - [Run Orbit From Source](#run-orbit-from-source)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - [Run Orbit from source](#run-orbit-from-source)
```

>       - [Generate Installer Packages from Orbit Source](#generate-installer-packages-from-orbit-source)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - [Generate installer packages from Orbit source](#generate-installer-packages-from-orbit-source)
```

You can include Fleet Desktop in the orbit package by including the `--fleet-desktop`option. 

#### Update channels

Orbit uses the concept of "update channels" to determine the version of Orbit, Fleet Desktop, osquery, and any extensions (extension support coming soon) to run. This concept is modeled from the common versioning convention for Docker containers.

Configure update channels for Orbit and osqueryd with the `--orbit-channel`, `--desktop-channel` and `--osqueryd-channel` flags when packaging.

| Channel | Versions |
| ------- | -------- |
| `4`     | 4.x.x    |
| `4.6`   | 4.6.x    |
| `4.6.0` | 4.6.0    |

Additionally `stable` and `edge` are special channel names. The `stable` channel will provide the most recent osquery version that Fleet deems to be stable. When a new version of osquery is released, it is added to the `edge` channel for beta testing. Fleet then provides input to the osquery TSC based on testing. After the version is declared stable by the osquery TSC, Fleet will promote the version to `stable` ASAP.

> #### macOS signing & Notarization

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### macOS signing & notarization
```

For signing, a "Developer ID Installer" certificate must be available on the build machine ([generation instructions](https://help.apple.com/xcode/mac/current/#/dev154b28f09)). Use `security find-identity -v` to verify the existence of this certificate and make note of the identifier provided in the left column.

For Notarization, valid App Store Connect credentials must be available on the build machine. Set these in the environment variables `AC_USERNAME` and `AC_PASSWORD`. It is common to configure this via [app-specific passwords](https://support.apple.com/en-ca/HT204397). Some organizations (notably those with Apple Enterprise Developer Accounts) may also need to specify `AC_TEAM_ID`. This value can be found on the [Apple Developer "Membership" page](https://developer.apple.com/account/#!/membership) under "Team ID".

Build a signed and notarized macOS package with an invocation like the following:

```sh
AC_USERNAME=zach@example.com AC_PASSWORD=llpk-sije-kjlz-jdzw fleetctl package --type=pkg --fleet-url=fleet.example.com --enroll-secret=63SBzTT+2UyW --sign-identity 3D7260BF99539C6E80A94835A8921A988F4E6498 --notarize
```

> This process may take several minutes to complete as the Notarization process completes on Apple's servers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This process may take several minutes, as the notarization process completes on Apple's servers.
```

After successful notarization, the generated "ticket" is automatically stapled to the package.

> #### Orbit Osquery Result and Status Logs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Orbit osquery result and status logs
```

If the `logger_path` configuration is set to `filesystem`, Orbit will store osquery's "result" and
"status" logs to the following directories:
  - Windows: C:\Program Files\Orbit\osquery_log
  - macOS: /opt/orbit/osquery_log
  - Linux: /opt/orbit/osquery_log

#### Orbit Development

> ##### Run Orbit From Source

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Run Orbit from source
```

To execute orbit from source directly, run the following command:

```sh
go run github.com/fleetdm/fleet/v4/orbit/cmd/orbit \
    --dev-mode \
    --disable-updates \
    --root-dir /tmp/orbit \
    --fleet-url https://localhost:8080 \
    --insecure \
    --enroll-secret Pz3zC0NMDdZfb3FtqiLgwoexItojrYh/ \
    -- --verbose
```

Or, using a `flagfile.txt` for osqueryd:
```sh 
go run github.com/fleetdm/fleet/v4/orbit/cmd/orbit \
    --dev-mode \
    --disable-updates \
    --root-dir /tmp/orbit \
    -- --flagfile=flagfile.txt --verbose
```

> ##### Generate Installer Packages from Orbit Source

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Generate installer packages from Orbit source
```

The `fleetctl package` command generates installers by fetching the targets/executables from a [TUF](https://theupdateframework.io/) repository.

> To generate an installer that contains an Orbit built from source you need to setup a local TUF repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To generate an installer that contains an Orbit built from source, you need to setup a local TUF repository.
```

> The following document explains how you can generate a TUF repository, and installers that use it [tools/tuf/test](../tools/tuf/test/README.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following document explains how you can generate a TUF repository and installers that use it: [tools/tuf/test](../tools/tuf/test/README.md).
```

### Troubleshooting

#### Logs

Orbit captures and streams osqueryd's stdout/stderr into its own stdout/stderr output.

> Following are the destination of logs for each platform (to access such locations the user will need administrative permissions on the host):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These are the log destinations for each platform:
```

- Linux: Orbit and osqueryd stdout/stderr output is sent to syslog (`/var/log/syslog` on Debian systems and `/var/log/messages` on CentOS).
- macOS: `/private/var/log/orbit/orbit.std{out|err}.log`.
- Windows: `C:\Windows\system32\config\systemprofile\AppData\Local\FleetDM\Orbit\Logs\orbit-osquery.log` (the log file is rotated).

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 Users will need administrative permissions on the host to access these log destinations.
```

#### Debug

> You can use the `--debug` option in `fleetctl package` to generate installers in "debug mode". Such mode increases the verbosity of logging for orbit and osqueryd (log DEBUG level).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the `--debug` option in `fleetctl package` to generate installers in "debug mode." This mode increases the verbosity of logging for orbit and osqueryd (log DEBUG level).
```

### Uninstall
#### Windows

Use the "Add or remove programs" dialog to remove Orbit.

#### Linux

Uninstall the package with the corresponding package manager:

- Ubuntu
```sh
sudo apt remove fleet-osquery -y
```
- CentOS
```sh
sudo rpm -e fleet-osquery-X.Y.Z.x86_64
```

#### macOS

Run the [cleanup script](./tools/cleanup/cleanup_macos.sh).

## Bugs

> To report a bug or request a feature, [click here](https://github.com/fleetdm/fleet/issues).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Create an issue](https://github.com/fleetdm/fleet/issues) to report a bug or request a feature.
```
